Add: "Integrating Lambda Chat into VS Code" (#16)
cbrownstein-lambda/lambda-docs-mkdocs: docs/education/programming/vs-code-lambda-chat.md

---
description: Learn how to use Lambda Chat in VS Code to help you code more efficiently.
comments: true
tags:
  - api
  - llama
  - llm
  - programming
---

# Integrating Lambda Chat into VS Code

## Introduction

Using the

> [CodeGPT VS Code (Visual Studio Code) extension :octicons-link-external-16:](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DanielSanMedium.dscodegpt){target="_blank"},

Reviewer: Global: Do we have to manually enter the octicon here?

Author: In Vim I have that and `{target="_blank"}` in registers so I can add them with 3 key presses.

I think [snippets](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/userdefinedsnippets) in VS Code are similar.

Reviewer: I see. Would be cool if we could just program that into MkDocs so external links would get the icon and always go into a new window.

you can integrate
[Lambda Chat :octicons-link-external-16:](https://lambda.chat/chatui/){target="_blank"}
into VS Code. Once integrated, Lambda Chat can help explain code, find problems
in code, and much more.
[See CodeGPT's documentation to learn more :octicons-link-external-16:](https://docs.codegpt.co/docs/intro){target="_blank"}.

For this tutorial, you need to
[generate a Cloud API key :octicons-link-external-16:](https://cloud.lambdalabs.com/api-keys){target="_blank"}.
You can also use an existing Cloud API key.

## Install the CodeGPT extension

> First, open VS Code.

Reviewer: Number these steps?

Author: Steps numbered in bed47fbae338cdd82f749449866ff701b84b6bdb.

Press ++ctrl++ + ++p++ to open **Quick Open**. Enter the following:

```
ext install DanielSanMedium.dscodegpt
```

Then, press ++enter++ to install the CodeGPT extension.

## Configure the Lambda Chat integration

> 

Reviewer: Number these steps?

> In the Primary Side Bar, click the **CHATGPT** button.

Reviewer: I see one instance of "primary side bar" in their help and one instance of it capitalized. I think lowercase reads easier, plus it doesn't have a proper name in the UI from what I can tell. 

Also, MS MoS uses it as one word: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/scannable-content/sidebars

Author: In **View** > **Appearance** it's **Primary Side Bar** (capitalized, two words). In the [Extension API docs](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/ux-guidelines/sidebars) it's **Primary Sidebar** (capitalized, one word).

I suggest we go with **Primary Sidebar** (capitalized, one word).

![CHATGPT button in Primary Side Bar](../../assets/images/vs-code-button.png)

Select **Select Your AI** > **Provider** > **Custom**.

![Custom provider under Select Your AI dropdown menu](../../assets/images/custom-ai-provider.png)

In the **Model** field, enter:

```
hermes-3-llama-3.1-405b-fp8
```

Click **Set Connection**.

In the **ApiKey** field, enter your Cloud API key.

In the **Custom Link** field, enter:

```
https://api.lambdalabs.com/v1/chat/completions
```

Then, click **Connect**.

You should see:

![CODEGPT connected](../../assets/images/codegpt-connected.png)

## Test the Lambda Chat integration

> In the menu bar, select **File** > **New Text File**.

Reviewer: Number these steps?

Enter a snippet of code in the editor, for example:

```python
for _ in range(3):
    print("Hello, World!")
```

Select the code, then right-click the code. Choose **CodeGPT: Explain**.

> Near the bottom of the Primary Side Bar, click **Send**.

Reviewer: Same as above wrt "primary side bar"

Author: ```suggestion
Near the bottom of the Primary Sidebar, click **Send**.
```
